title: Debug
categories: IOS
tags:
  - Debug
date: 2015-07-16 09:50:30
author:
description:
photos:
---
### 调试

#### DTrace
You can use `DTrace` to monitor a running application to see the methods and the classes that are called. You can easily monitor an iOS app running in the Simulator using DTrace on the command line, First you will need to find the PID of the application using ps and then you can run a `DTrace` probe like the following:
```
sudo dtrace -q -n 'objc1234:::entry { printf("%s %s\n", probemod, probefunc); }'
```
where 1234 is the process ID of the app.

If you are only interested in tracing a single class, UIView for example, you could use:
```
sudo dtrace -q -n 'objc1234:UIView::entry { printf("%s %s\n", probemod, probefunc); }'
```

If you wanted to trace all calls to dealloc on all classes, you would use:
```
sudo dtrace -q -n 'objc1234::-dealloc:entry { printf("%s %s\n", probemod, probefunc); }'
```

Obviously, you could combine these to only see UIView deallocs:
```
sudo dtrace -q -n 'objc1234:UIView:-dealloc:entry { printf("%s %s\n", probemod, probefunc); }'

```

If you want to be able to distinguish a specific object of a class you could also print the memory address of the object (self) using the following:
```
sudo dtrace -q -n 'objc1234:UIView:-dealloc:entry { printf("%s (0x%p) %s\n", probemod, arg0, probefunc); }'
```


#### message logging 好像不可以了
```
// Turn on message logging
instrumentObjcMessageSends(YES);

// insert code here...
NSString *string = [NSString stringWithFormat:@"This is just %d cool", 2];

// Now turn it off again
instrumentObjcMessageSends(NO);
```

#### 检测是否为主线程
    [NSThread isMainThread]

#### 打印引用计数
```
NSLog(@"retain count = %d", _objc_rootRetainCount(obj));
NSLog(@"Retain count is %ld", CFGetRetainCount((__bridge CFTypeRef)myObject));
```

#### output observation information for object
```
po [self observationInfo]
```

#### lldb 增强
    brew install chisel

    vim ~/.lldbinit
    command script import /usr/local/Cellar/chisel/1.1.0/libexec/fblldb.py

#### lldb 命令
    print(p)
    po
    call function
    bt   Printing the Stacktrace
    expr(e) todo.title = @"Changed"

#### lldb 增强命令
    pviews  
        Print the recursive view description for the key window.    Yes Yes
    pvc
        Print the recursive view controller description for the key window. Yes No
    visualize
        Open a UIImage, CGImageRef, UIView, or CALayer in Preview.app on your Mac.  Yes No
    fv  
        Find a view in the hierarchy whose class name matches the provided regex.   Yes No
    fvc
        Find a view controller in the hierarchy whose class name matches the provided regex.    Yes No
    show/hide
        Show or hide the given view or layer. You don't even have to continue the process to see the changes!   Yes Yes
    mask/unmask
        Overlay a view or layer with a transparent rectangle to visualize where it is.  Yes No
    border/unborder
        Add a border to a view or layer to visualize where it is.   Yes Yes
    caflush
        Flush the render server (equivalent to a "repaint" if no animations are in-flight).)    Yes Yes
    bmessage
        Set a symbolic breakpoint on the method of a class or the method of an instance without worrying which class in the hierarchy actually implements the method.   Yes Yes
    wivar
        Set a watchpoint on an instance variable of an object.  Yes Yes
    presponder  
        Print the responder chain starting from the given object.   Yes Ye

#### show frame
    p (CGRect)[uiTextFieldObj frame]
    p self.view.layer.frame

#### how view hierarchy.
    #ifdef DEBUG
      NSLog(@"Cell recursive description:\n\n%@\n\n", [cell performSelector:@selector(recursiveDescription)]);
    #endif

##### 显示所有视图
    po [[UIWindow keyWindow] recursiveDescription]

##### IOS8 显示单个视图
    po [[[UIWindow keyWindow] rootViewController] _printHierarchy]

##### searchbar 视图
    po [searchbar recursiveDescription] //查看索引树

#### LOG
    #ifdef DEBUG
    static const int ddLogLevel = LOG_LEVEL_VERBOSE;
    #else
    static const int ddLogLevel = LOG_LEVEL_OFF;
    #endif

    // 实例化 lumberjack
    [DDLog addLogger:[DDTTYLogger sharedInstance]];
    // 允许颜色
    [[DDTTYLogger sharedInstance] setColorsEnabled:YES];

    //lumberjack提供了四种Log方法
    DDLogError(@"错误信息"); // 红色
    DDLogWarn(@"警告"); // 橙色
    DDLogInfo(@"提示信息"); // 默认是黑色
    DDLogVerbose(@"详细信息"); // 默认是黑色

    //如果要修改Log输出的颜色可以使用如下代码
    [[DDTTYLogger sharedInstance] setForegroundColor:[UIColor blueColor]
                                    backgroundColor:nil
                                            forFlag:LOG_FLAG_INFO];


#### 调试的技巧
```
-(void) buttonPressed :(UIButton *)button
{
  NSLog(@"Stack trace: %@", [NSThread callStackSymbols]);
  NSLog(@"Current selector: %@", NSStringFromSelector(_cmd));  
  NSLog(@"Object class: %@", NSStringFromClass([self class]));
  NSLog(@"Filename: %@", [[NSString stringWithUTF8String:__FILE__] lastPathComponent]);
  ...
}
```
